Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
You may recognize this network topology.
This is the same network we configured in
the previous lab.
However, this time there are a few configuration
errors, so PC1 and PC2 are unable to ping
each other.
As the lab instructions say, there is one
misconfiguration per router, so we have to
find and fix the misconfigurations.
Troubleshooting labs like this are great practice
for the CCNA.
Troubleshooting helps test your knowledge
of the concepts, and troubleshooting questions
may also appear on the CCNA exam itself.
I highly recommend you try to complete this
lab yourself first, if you watch the video
before you will already know what the
problems in the network are and you won’t
practice your own troubleshooting skills.
Okay, before we get started troubleshooting,
we should confirm the problem.
PC1 and PC2 should not be able to ping eachother.
I’ll go on PC1 and try to ping PC2.
Okay, let’s send that ping.
Ping 192.168.3.1.
Okay, the ping indeed does not work.
Although the misconfigurations are on the
routers in this lab, let’s quickly check
the PC’s configuration.
To check the configuration on a windows PC,
use the command IPCONFIG.
Here you can see the IP address, subnet mask,
and default gateway.
If you want more detail, use the command IPCONFIG
/ALL.
This gives more information, such as the physical
address.
What is the physical address?
Well, it’s the MAC address.
Okay, let’s see if we can ping the default
gateway, since to reach other networks we
need to be able to reach the default gateway.
PING 192.168.1.254.
Okay, no problems here.
Let’s go on R1 now and see if we can find
the issue...enter privileged exec mode with
ENABLE.
First I’ll check if the interface configuration
is okay.
SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF...the addresses are
correct, and both interfaces are UP/UP, so
the interface configuration is fine.
Let’s check the routing table.
SHOW IP ROUTE...here’s the static route
for the 192.168.3.0/24 network, but can you
see the misconfiguration?
It says via 192.168.12.3, but actually the
next hop address should be 192.168.12.2, which
is the IP address of R2’s G0/0 interface.
Let’s check it in the running config.
Show running-config, and then I’m going
to filter the output by using the PIPE symbol,
INCLUDE, and then ip route.
Here you can see the configuration statement.
I’m going to right click to copy it, and then go to global
config mode.
CONFIGURE TERMINAL.
Now I’ll paste in the configuration statement,
and use the keyboard shortcut CTRL+A to go to
the beginning of the line.  Type NO, followed
by a space, and then hit enter.
and that deletes the configuration statement.
Let’s check.
DO SHOW RUNNING-CONFIG, PIPE, INCLUDE IP ROUTE.
Okay, it’s gone.
Now I’ll paste in the configuration statement
once more, and change this 3 to a 2.
I’ll use the up arrows to go back to the
show running-config command, and now you can
see we have the correct configuration statement.
Let’s check the routing table one last time.
DO SHOW IP ROUTE.
Okay, there’s the correct route.
So, we have fixed the problem on R1.
Now let’s move on to R2.  Enter privileged
exec mode with ENABLE.
And let’s check the interface configuration.
SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF.
The IP addresses both are correct, and the
interfaces are UP/UP, so no problems here.
Let’s check the routing table.
SHOW IP ROUTE.
We have two static routes as expected, 192.168.1.0/24
via 192.168.12.1 is correct.  And
192.168.3.0/24, with an exit interface of
gigabitethernet0/0, there’s our problem.
To reach the 192.168.3.0/24 network, R2 should
use the gigabitethernet0/1 interface, not
0/0.
Let’s see what happens if I enter the correct
route without removing the incorrect one.
CONFIGURE TERMINAL.
IP ROUTE 192.168.3.0 255.255.255.0 g0/1.
DO SHOW IP ROUTE.
Okay, you can see both routes are kept in
the routing table, the second does not override
the first.
Because both are in the routing table, this
means the router will ‘load-balance’ over
the two routes, sending some packets out of
G0/0, and some packets out of G0/1.
Sometimes load-balancing is a good thing,
but in this case the G0/0 interface is totally
wrong, so we should remove that configuration
statement.
DO SHOW RUNNING-CONFIG, PIPE, INCLUDE IP ROUTE.  Okay,
right click to copy, right click to paste.
Hit CTRL-A
to skip to the beginning of the line, and
type no.
Let’s see if the route was removed from
the routing table.
DO SHOW IP ROUTE.
Okay, now we only have one route to 192.168.3.0/24,
using the correct interface, G0/1.
Finally let’s look for the issue on R3.  First enter
privileged exec mode with ENABLE.
And once again I’ll check the interface configuration
first.
SHOW IP INTERFACE BRIEF.
Both interfaces are UP/UP, however there is
a misconfiguration here.
R3’s gigabitethernet0/0 interface should
have an IP address of 192.168.13.3, not 192.168.23.3.
Let’s fix that.
CONFIGURE TERMINAL.
INTERFACE G0/0.
Now, unlike when configuring routes, we don’t
have to remove the current configuration first.
If we enter a new IP address, it will overwrite
the current IP address.
Let’s see the config before and after.
DO SHOW RUNNING-CONFIG.  Okay, here’s the
incorrect IP address.
Now let’s configure the correct IP address.
IP ADDRESS 192.168.13.3 255.255.255.0.
Let’s check the config again.
DO SHOW RUNNING-CONFIG.  As you can see,
the previous configuration was automatically
overwritten, we did not have to delete it.
Okay, since we are told there is one misconfiguration
per router, we don’t have to check the routing
table, but let’s take a quick look anyway.
R3 should have a static route to the 192.168.1.0/24
network.
DO SHOW IP ROUTE.  There it is, via 192.168.13.2,
which is R2.
Now that we have fixed the misconfigurations,
let’s go back on PC1 and try out that ping
again.
The first ping or two might fail, but after
that they should all succeed.
Let’s give it a shot.
PING 192.168.3.1.
Okay, so after finding and fixing the misconfigurations
on R1, R2, and R3, PC1 is now able to ping
PC2.
That’s all for this lab.
Thank you for watching.
Please subscribe to the channel, like the
video, leave a comment, and share the video
with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links
in the description.
I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept
BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips via the
Brave browser.
That's all for now.